---
title: SUS
---


1. Teixeira MG, Costa M da CN, Paixão ES da, et al. Conquistas do SUS no enfrentamento das doenças transmissíveis. Ciênc. saúde coletiva. 2018;23(6):1819-1828. doi:10.1590/1413-81232018236.08402018

    [Conquistas do SUS no enfrentamento das doenças transmissíveis](https://www.scielo.br/scielo.php?pid=S1413-81232018000601819&script=sci_abstract&tlng=pt). 

# Direito à saúde

## Argumentos contra

1. Loefler IJ. "Health care is a human right" is a meaningless and devastating manifesto. BMJ. 1999;318(7200):1766. doi:[10.1136/bmj.318.7200.1766a](https://doi.org/10.1136/bmj.318.7200.1766a).

    Esse é o texto de *Imre J P Loefle* alegando que, como a saúde universal é inantingivel, não há sentido em afirmar que saúde é um direito humano. 

    > Health for all is not attainable. The bulk of money, effort, and thought in health care is spent on prolonging life by managing disease. Most of health work is medical care. Although immortality and universal health are unattainable, we certainly should aim for a healthier world. For this we need peace, a new economic world order, the restoration of the family, and many other things which cannot be classified as medical care. We also need a new socioeconomic philosophy, as capitalism and socialism have both failed to deliver their promises.

    > Universal, complete health care is unattainable, not only because we live in an unjust world. We now have the technology to manage disease on a large scale. Yet disease management and life prolongation are matters of expenditure. To buy a life expectancy of 90 years may cost a society twice as much as to buy one of 75 years. Eventually society may spend its entire wealth on health or, rather, on survival despite disease. To distribute longevity more evenly would be expensive because to keep unlucky people alive is expensive.

2. Lamm, R. (1998). The Case Against Making Healthcare a "Right". Human Rights, 25(4), 8-11. Retrieved June 20, 2020, from <https://jstor.org/stable/27880117>.
3. Barlow P. Health care is not a human right. BMJ. 1999;319(7205):321. doi:[10.1136/bmj.319.7205.321](https://doi.org/10.1136/bmj.319.7205.321).